clae3xiz500tc6hnvfe95ed9p.md, before:

# The Top 9 Javascript Resources For Beginners

The advantage is that we have a wide range of possibilities. The bad news is that we are unsure of which resource would be the best to start with.

So, this article's goal is to shed some light on the subject and point you in the direction of the best sources for learning JavaScript. especially while starting off. So let's look at the top 9 resources I've included below.

## FreeCodeCamp

The first resource on the list is FreeCodeCamp. [FreeCodeCamp curriculum](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/) provides an excellent introduction to JavaScript. Moreover, it dives into intermediate & advanced topics as well. It takes you from no knowledge at all to an intermediate level to a Full stack developer.

However, once you dive into the advanced topics, you might have to supplement the learning with additional resources. Or with their YouTube channel. By the way, talking about their YouTube channel, it is another excellent resource. They have many JavaScript tutorials created by professional developers.

**Many people got their first Junior Developer Job just going throug FreeCodeCamp.**

Thus, you can get to an advanced level just by using the FreeCodeCamp platform and their YouTube channel.

<YouTube id="jS4aFq5-91M" />

## You Don’t Know JavaScript

The book series ["You Don’t Know JavaScript"](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS) is one of the best resources to learn JavaScript, if not the best. This series is split into six books, and it takes you from zero knowledge to an advanced level. It teaches you about the scope, closures, “this” keyword, object prototype, types & grammar, async, performance, and ES6 & beyond.

The series is written by Kyle Simpson, who is a very knowledgeable person, and an active JavaScript developer. The good thing is that, like FreeCodeCamp, "You Don´t Know Javascript" series is free. Of course, you can, and you should buy them to support the author if you can afford it.

The “You Don’t Know JavaScript” series is my go-to manual. Whenever I want to refresh concepts or learn new ones, I use this resource first. It is well-written, detailed, to the point, and always following the [ECMAScript](https://tc39.es/ecma262/) specification.

## JavaScript30

Practising by building application yourself is critical in programming. As a result, I want to recommend you JavaScript30, which focuses exclusively on building JavaScript applications. It does not use any frameworks, compilers, boilerplates, and so on. It is purely vanilla JavaScript.

The [JavaScript30](https://javascript30.com/) is for beginners and for intermediates. It is going to teach you the JavaScript fundamentals and how to work with the [Document Object Model (DOM)](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js\_htmldom.asp). Bear in mind; you should already have basic JavaScript knowledge before starting the course. The purpose of the course is to make you apply that knowledge.

JavaScript30 is entirely free, as well. Until this point, you have three excellent resources to skyrocket your JavaScript skills for free! You can also follow this tutorial on his YouTube channel

<YouTube id="VuN8qwZoego" />

## MDN Web Docs JavaScript

Given that [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) is a top website, it cannot be left out of this article.

The online tutorial is split into four parts:

*   **Complete beginners**
*   **JavaScript Guide**
*   **Intermediate**
*   **Advanced**

This could be a good tab to have open next time you’re attempting those [Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/) challenges. 

As with the other resource listed in the article, you can go from a basic level to an advanced level. Besides that, the course is written and maintained by professional developers. 

Therefore, you can bet on the tutorial provided by MDN. It is of the highest quality.

## JavaScript.info

Another resource I want to mention is [JavaScript.info](http://javascript.info/), which is an amazing reference for Developers. It contains information on basic JavaScript, advanced concepts, and Document Object Model. 

The website is split into three parts:

*   **The JavaScript Language** – start from scratch and go on to advanced concepts like OOP. The focus is on the language itself here.
*   **Browser: Document, Events, Interfaces** – learn how to manage the browser page: add elements, manipulate their size and position, dynamically create interfaces and interact with the visitor.
*   **Additional Articles** – a list of extra topics that assume you’ve covered the first two parts of the tutorial. There is no clear hierarchy here; you can read articles in the order you want.

The information is dense, and to the point. You can use the website as your primary study guide, or you can use it in conjuncture with the other resources. 

## Learn-JS

[Learn-js](https://www.learn-js.org/) is intended for everyone who wishes to learn the JavaScript programming language. This website is an interactive JavaScript tutorial where you can run free JavaScript code directly from the web browser. You are able to try JavaScript without even installing it. Here you can learn the basics, take advance tutorials, or help others learn by contributing with tutorials.

## Khan Academy

This a nonprofit organization that provides a free, world-class coding education to everyone. [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming/) is a good learning platform where you can find tutorials not only for computer programming but also for other subjects like math, arts, economics, and finance. It has a JavaScript tutorial that can help you work with DOM events with jQuery, used for making animations and effects on a webpage. As its motto states, “You can learn anything. For free. For everyone. Forever.”

<Image src="/images/khanacademy.jpg" width={800} height={358} />

## Codeacademy

If Zero is a pure beginner and Hundred (100) is a professional developer, 20 hours of [Codeacademy](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/introduction-to-javascript/) JavaScript track will take you all the way to a 7. Codecademy’s step-by-step tutorial system is great for an introduction to programming in JavaScript. You will learn functions, loops, data structures, and many other data types. 

## Flatiron School

The last resource I want to mention is [Flatiron School](https://flatironschool.com/free-lessons/) 75 hour Bootcamp Coding prep course. You’ll use real developer tools and discover if a career in code could be right for you!
This software engineering prep is a great way to start your foundation in coding. You will get hands-on experience with [HTML](https://html.com/), [CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/Css/), [JavaScript](https://www.w3schools.com/js/default.asp), [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and more. Plus you’ll start to have a feel what it would be like to learn in a popular coding bootcamp.

## Conclusion

The resources included in this article are among the finest for learning JavaScript, but the list is not exhaustive. By utilizing these tools, you can develop to a relatively advanced level and maybe even receive a job offer. Mixing them will produce the finest results because you can gain knowledge from each one.

Best of all, they are totally free!

**I recommend bookmarking this article for future reference.**

Do you want to learn more about the programming world visit my Blogs: [Hashnode Blog](https://creativelightbox.net/) & [DEV Blog](https://dev.to/joshhortt)

Commit message:

update post: The Top 9 Javascript Resources For Beginners

clae3xiz500tc6hnvfe95ed9p.md, after:

# The Top 9 Javascript Resources For Beginners

The advantage is that we have a wide range of possibilities. The bad news is that we are unsure of which resource would be the best to start with.

So, this article's goal is to shed some light on the subject and point you in the direction of the best sources for learning JavaScript. especially while starting off. So let's look at the top 9 resources I've included below.

## FreeCodeCamp

The first resource on the list is FreeCodeCamp. [FreeCodeCamp curriculum](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/) provides an excellent introduction to JavaScript. Moreover, it dives into intermediate & advanced topics as well. It takes you from no knowledge at all to an intermediate level to a Full stack developer.

However, once you dive into the advanced topics, you might have to supplement the learning with additional resources. Or with their YouTube channel. By the way, talking about their YouTube channel, it is another excellent resource. They have many JavaScript tutorials created by professional developers.

**Many people got their first Junior Developer Job just going throug FreeCodeCamp.**

Thus, you can get to an advanced level just by using the FreeCodeCamp platform and their [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/Freecodecamp).

> ![FreeCodeCamp Youtube Channel](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1668268872775/5EBdZkOz4.PNG?auto=compress)

## You Don’t Know JavaScript

The book series ["You Don’t Know JavaScript"](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS) is one of the best resources to learn JavaScript, if not the best. This series is split into six books, and it takes you from zero knowledge to an advanced level. It teaches you about the scope, closures, “this” keyword, object prototype, types & grammar, async, performance, and ES6 & beyond.

The series is written by Kyle Simpson, who is a very knowledgeable person, and an active JavaScript developer. The good thing is that, like FreeCodeCamp, "You Don´t Know Javascript" series is free. Of course, you can, and you should buy them to support the author if you can afford it.

The “You Don’t Know JavaScript” series is my go-to manual. Whenever I want to refresh concepts or learn new ones, I use this resource first. It is well-written, detailed, to the point, and always following the [ECMAScript](https://tc39.es/ecma262/) specification.

## JavaScript30

Practising by building application yourself is critical in programming. As a result, I want to recommend you JavaScript30, which focuses exclusively on building JavaScript applications. It does not use any frameworks, compilers, boilerplates, and so on. It is purely vanilla JavaScript.

The [JavaScript30](https://javascript30.com/) is for beginners and for intermediates. It is going to teach you the JavaScript fundamentals and how to work with the [Document Object Model (DOM)](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js\_htmldom.asp). Bear in mind; you should already have basic JavaScript knowledge before starting the course. The purpose of the course is to make you apply that knowledge.

JavaScript30 is entirely free, as well. Until this point, you have three excellent resources to skyrocket your JavaScript skills for free! You can also follow Wes Bos tutorial on his [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuN8qwZoego&list=PLu8EoSxDXHP6CGK4YVJhL\_VWetA865GOH).

> ![Javascript 30](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1668269129332/wDoDn4ux-.PNG?auto=compress)

## MDN Web Docs JavaScript

Given that [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) is a top website, it cannot be left out of this article.

The online tutorial is split into four parts:

*   **Complete beginners**
*   **JavaScript Guide**
*   **Intermediate**
*   **Advanced**

This could be a good tab to have open next time you’re attempting those [Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/) challenges. 

As with the other resource listed in the article, you can go from a basic level to an advanced level. Besides that, the course is written and maintained by professional developers. 

Therefore, you can bet on the tutorial provided by MDN. It is of the highest quality.

## JavaScript.info

Another resource I want to mention is [JavaScript.info](http://javascript.info/), which is an amazing reference for Developers. It contains information on basic JavaScript, advanced concepts, and Document Object Model. 

The website is split into three parts:

*   **The JavaScript Language** – start from scratch and go on to advanced concepts like OOP. The focus is on the language itself here.
*   **Browser: Document, Events, Interfaces** – learn how to manage the browser page: add elements, manipulate their size and position, dynamically create interfaces and interact with the visitor.
*   **Additional Articles** – a list of extra topics that assume you’ve covered the first two parts of the tutorial. There is no clear hierarchy here; you can read articles in the order you want.

The information is dense, and to the point. You can use the website as your primary study guide, or you can use it in conjuncture with the other resources. 

## Learn-JS

[Learn-js](https://www.learn-js.org/) is intended for everyone who wishes to learn the JavaScript programming language. This website is an interactive JavaScript tutorial where you can run free JavaScript code directly from the web browser. You are able to try JavaScript without even installing it. Here you can learn the basics, take advance tutorials, or help others learn by contributing with tutorials.

## Khan Academy

This a nonprofit organization that provides a free, world-class coding education to everyone. [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming/) is a good learning platform where you can find tutorials not only for computer programming but also for other subjects like math, arts, economics, and finance. It has a JavaScript tutorial that can help you work with DOM events with jQuery, used for making animations and effects on a webpage. As its motto states, “You can learn anything. For free. For everyone. Forever.”

> ![Khan Academy](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1668269215521/qmtGaz3p\_.PNG?auto=compress)

## Codeacademy

If Zero is a pure beginner and Hundred (100) is a professional developer, 20 hours of [Codeacademy](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/introduction-to-javascript/) JavaScript track will take you all the way to a 7. Codecademy’s step-by-step tutorial system is great for an introduction to programming in JavaScript. You will learn functions, loops, data structures, and many other data types. 

## Flatiron School

The last resource I want to mention is [Flatiron School](https://flatironschool.com/free-lessons/) 75 hour Bootcamp Coding prep course. You’ll use real developer tools and discover if a career in code could be right for you!
This software engineering prep is a great way to start your foundation in coding. You will get hands-on experience with [HTML](https://html.com/), [CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/Css/), [JavaScript](https://www.w3schools.com/js/default.asp), [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and more. Plus you’ll start to have a feel what it would be like to learn in a popular coding bootcamp.

## Conclusion

The resources included in this article are among the finest for learning JavaScript, but the list is not exhaustive. By utilizing these tools, you can develop to a relatively advanced level and maybe even receive a job offer. Mixing them will produce the finest results because you can gain knowledge from each one.

Best of all, they are totally free!

**I recommend bookmarking this article for future reference.**

Do you want to learn more about the programming world visit my Blogs: [Hashnode Blog](https://creativelightbox.net/) & [DEV Blog](https://dev.to/joshhortt)
